# Convolutional autoencoder for wind turbine blade damage detection
### Modeling image data requires a special approach in the neural network world. The best-known neural network for modeling image data is the Convolutional Neural Network (CNN, or ConvNet). It can better retain the connected information between the pixels of an image. The particular design of the layers in a CNN makes it a better choice to process image data.

### The convolutional Autoencoder is a type of neural network that can reduce noise in data by learning the underlying structure of the input. It comprises three parts: an Encoder that compresses the input while preserving useful features, a Bottleneck that selects important features, and a Decoder that reconstructs the data. The Encoder compresses the input data into a lower-dimensional representation, called the Bottleneck or latent space. The Decoder then takes the compressed input data and tries to reconstruct the original data. The bottleneck layer is responsible for choosing the most important features and passing them through to the Decoder. Training the Autoencoder involves comparing the original input data to the reconstructed data and adjusting the network weights to minimize the reconstruction error.

## Encoder Structure
### The Encoder part of the network is to compress the input data and passes it to the Bottleneck layer. The compression creates a knowledge representation much smaller than the original input but has most of its features. This part of the network comprises blocks of convolutions followed by pooling layers that, in turn, further help to create a compressed data representation. The output of an ideal Encoder should be the same as the input but with a smaller size. The Encoder should be sensitive to the inputs to recreate it and not over-sensitive. Being over-sensitive would make the model memorize the inputs perfectly and then overfit the data.

## Bottleneck Layer
### The Bottleneck is the most important layer of an Autoencoder. This module stores the compressed knowledge that is passed to the Decoder. The Bottleneck restricts information flow by only allowing important parts of the compressed representation to pass through to the Decoder. Doing so ensures that the input data has the maximum possible information extracted from it and the most useful correlations found. This part of the architecture is also a measure against overfitting as it prevents the network from memorizing the input data directly. Note that smaller bottlenecks lead to lesser overfitting (to an extent).

## Decoder Structure
### This part of the network is a "Decompressor" that attempts to recreate an image given its latent attributes. The Decoder gets the compressed information from the Bottleneck layer and then uses upsampling and convolutions to reconstruct it. The output generated by the Decoder is compared with the ground truth to quantify the network's performance.